this doc serves as a place for me to jot down ideas that occur to me. none of them are final or fully refined.

idea for game:
	-Main Character (MC) and friends group up and head to house of horrors
	-house of horrors is actually a metaphor / psychological cope for MC who is experiencing grief
	-house of horrors has several trap rooms with one possible escape for MC
	-each of MC's friends represent a stage of grief, and will have a unique trap room (event) that personifies that stage
	-each event should be something that results in the death of the friend while also being superficially MC's fault, but all are unavoidable
	-player transcends & escapes house after the death of each stage's character, culminating in Acceptance.

early game - character building, but how??
	-if we're going the way of "this is all in MC's head", narrative doesn't need to be linear (like a dream, you're just there, like Inception)
	-but we do need some way of introducing characters / getting the player attached
	-so whats the location they're going? why would they all go?
		-schoolmates? game starts out with them hanging out in class / outside
		-cheap and easy but cliche: lets check out the haunted old house ooo aaa
		-mystique: the house is known for something like finding closure / revealing yourself / some other gay shit
		-each character could have a reason to want to go, even though MC is the only one that matters

i think each event should take place in such a way that MC + the character can speak / interact but can't reach eachother (something like jailbars?)
-puzzles with spooky boys who embody the stage serving as the obstacle
-thinking bubble has no portrait, could be another color
-actually all the characters should have their own textbox / color, very appropriate.
-paintings are going to be a motif throughout the game
-they're inherently dream-like because they're abstract, they're what make MC / others want to come
-each painting is different to each person, perhaps each character will take their favorite?
-the painting they take represents their aspect of grief but isn't named until end-of-game
-this is how it's revealed what the game meaning is

-isolated areas with each of the 5 friends, one on each floor
-art gallery on that floor matches the stage of grief
-denial starts in the basement, anger is ground floor, etc.
-eventually literally transcend the cycle of grief
-by the time you've met up with acceptance, all the other friends are dead
-mc obviously in shambles, literally depressed now
-becomes clear acceptance knows whats going on
-forces MC to confront the gallery here, which has art that reminds him of what's happened
-MC remembers and has heart2heart with acceptance over his sorrow
-acceptance slowly leads MC to acceptance
-maybe instead of die he can fade away or something. needs to feel natural.
-denial's art theme can be innocuous, harmless stuff (signifying MC's denial of the situation and comforting images)
-art gets progressively more revealing, culminating in the ones that directly expose MC's guilt

denial
	name: daniel? anagram of denial lol
	character:
		-wants to go because they want to prove it's all bullshit
		-should be the least interesting / player-invested character since we're killing them first
		-"this is so stupid"
		-"you guys will seriously believe anything"

	event:
		-player has to tap button / click to keep Denial from dying to some inevitable threat (holding wall up that crushes, guillotine, etc).
		-can't be won, eventually the event will happen in spite of player's efforts
		-autoclicker -> you can't cheat death, you'll never move on like this, etc.

anger
	name: ira? literally latin for anger
	character:
		-wants to go because 
			-they want to prove they already know themselves fine?
			-they want to prove they're not scared?
		-character needs to be fiery, mean, but also just straight-forward, doesn't beat around the bush
		-authentic but blunt

	event:
		idea 1:
			-in frustration, MC beats up on something -- Anger experiences whatever MC does
			-literally need to beat Anger to death to escape room
			-suits the stage, but prevents final dialogue between the two (suboptimal!!)
		idea 2:
			-i'm thinking

bargaining
	character:
		-doesn't want to go, gets goaded into it.
		-giant pussy, but also a mediator / tries to keep peace
		-nice guy, just wants everyone to be happy
		-naive

	event:
		idea 1:
			-some sort of situation where Bargaining is trapped in room with another new character who's going to kill him (for some reason)
			-MC can see / talk but can't reach
			-MC has the opportunity to progress through dialogues that bargain with new character not to do it
			-can go on for however long, but aggressor has an answer to everything MC says and eventually does it anyway
			-

depression
	name: tristan? trist- prefix meaning sadness
	character:
		-wants to go because they have nothing else going on, who cares
		-"beats spending the night with myself"
		could be funny, make a lot of depressing sarcastic quips (aka red flags!!! for depression!!!)
		"is there anything scarier than really knowing yourself? only the alternative I guess."
		"I know myself fine. That's the problem."
		-rough around the edges, disheveled
		-frequently self-deprecates, but will defend others (especially Bargaining)
		-actually kind of alpha, doesn't back down from threats etc., is just depressed.

	event:
		-suicide, player unwittingly contributes to it 
		-takes stool from player's inventory and hangs self?
			-ceiling pull-down switch that allows player to get out? idk man.
			-would need to be a reason Depression committing is necessary for player's escape, or is at least one possible solution
			-Depresison already wants to commit, doesn't need to be the *only* solution.
		-trapped in limited oxygen situation with MC, becomes clear only enough for 1 before escape, kills self to allow MC to escape

acceptance
	name: noah? biblical name, meaning comfort or rest
	character:
		-this could be a real person in MC's life, the one who has died, and who MC is going through grief for
		-wants to go because they want to help MC
		-best friend type, loyal, hints that they know what's going on throughout the game
		-as the final stage, they need to let the player know what's going on, maybe subtle, maybe obvious
		-"MC, you have to let me go. that's why we're here." except less contrived
		-probably he or MC should initiate the idea to go to the house

	event:
		idea 1:
			-trapped in adjacent rooms, MC's room has panel that controls ascent / descent of each room
			-if MC ascends, Acceptance descends and vice versa
			-ascent = escape, descent = death
			-ascending and escaping is both literally and metaphorically how MC escapes (ascends) cycle of grief

post-game:
	-character wakes up from this delusion
	-attends funeral for Acceptance?
	-other stages of grief are real friends in real world and they're all fine?





working script
>black screen, only textbox is visible
MC (thinking): "..."
MC (thinking): "I wonder if it's time to wake up."
MC (thinking): "I hate this feeling. It's the uncertainty of it."
MC (thinking): "If I open my eyes and it's bright in my room, it'll be time to get up."
MC (thinking): "If it's still dark, I'll have to find a way to get back to sleep."
MC (thinking): "Why is it that I don't know whether it's morning or still night before I open my eyes?"
MC (thinking): "I wonder if most people know when it's time to get up based on how they feel."
MC (thinking): "I mean, sleep is a biological process, right?" 
MC (thinking): "I feel full after I eat. I feel sated when I drink."
MC (thinking): "When I'm cold, it feels good to warm up. When I'm hot, it feels good to cool down."
MC (thinking): "But when I wake up, I'm still tired. There's no relief."
MC (thinking): "I think I used to wake up feeling refreshed. I did, didn't I?"
MC (thinking): "I wonder when that stopped."
MC (thinking): "I guess it was probably gradual. I'm sure I would've noticed if it was all at once."
MC (thinking): "Gosh, that should probably alarm me more, shouldn't it? I wonder what else I've lost without noticing."
MC (thinking): "..."
MC (thinking): "Well, I followed that train of thought a little too far. At this point, I don't think I'll be getting back to sleep no matter what time it is."
MC (thinking): "Guess I'd better hope it's morning then."
>fade in to MC's room, MC in bed, it's morning
MC (thinking): "..."
MC (thinking): "I think I'm disappointed anyway."
>player gains control, can move around room
>eventually exit to main room

>Acceptance is in main room (off screen) with MC's mom
Acceptance: "Hey MC!"
MC (thinking): "Guess Acceptance is already here. I don't know why, but today I really feel relieved to hear his voice again." 
>MC approaches
MC: "Hey, it's good to see you again."
Acceptance: "Good to see me again? You know we walk to school together every day right?"
MC: "Haha, yeah I know. Sorry."
Acceptance: "You alright? You look like you haven't slept much."
MC: "Yeah, I feel like it too."
Acceptance: "That sucks."
Acceptance: "Well, you know I'm not normally one for platitudes, but hey, it *is* Friday!"
Acceptance: "Let's just knock this day out. Maybe we can do something after school to clear your head."
MC: "That sounds good. You can go ahead without me, I'll finish getting ready and be right behind you."
Acceptance: "Cool. See you there!"
>Acceptance walks off screen, player regains control
>eventually head to school

>Acceptance is in bathroom, comes out as player approaches class / group of friends
>Cutscene:
Acceptance: "There you are! We're a little early, but everyone's already here."
>Acceptance walks to group of friends.
>MC follows
Anger: "Hey MC. You look like literal garbage."
Bargaining: "That... seems unnecessary to say."
Depression: "I'm gonna go with Anger on this one."
Depression: "I spend a lot of time around garbage, and this definitely feels reminiscent."
MC: "Yeah, I've just been really tired lately. Can't seem to think clearly."
Denial: "Happens to everyone sometimes. You'll get over it."
Denial: "Besides, you don't look that bad."
Bargaining: "I'm sure you're trying to be nice, Denial, but that comes off as .. a little unsympathetic."
Denial "Whatever."
Anger: "If it's sympathy you're after, I'm sorry that you look like literal garbage."
Depression: "I wish you'd talk to me like that."
Bargaining: "You probably shouldn't talk to anyone like that."
Anger: "Don't be such a thin skinned baby for once, Bargaining."
Depression: "Back off. Don't be mean to Bargaining."
Acceptance: "You know, I bet all this bickering isn't helping MC feel much better."
MC: "It's a little nice. I can't really keep up right now, so it all kind of just blends together into white noise."
Depression: "About time one of you joined me as the second basket case of the group."
Bargaining: "You joke about your mental health a lot, Depression. You should take that stuff seriously."
Anger: "Yeah, please don't make any jokes Depression, Bargaining might start crying."
Bargaining: "It's serious!"
Denial: "It really isn't."
Acceptance: "No, it is. Take care of yourself, Depression."
Acceptance: "Actually, MC and I were hoping to do something after school. You wanna join us?"
Depression: "You know how much I like being a third wheel."
MC: "No, seriously, come with us. We like having you around."
Depression: "You're gonna make me blush."
Depression: "Alright, sure, I'm up for whatever. Beats spending the night with myself."
Depression: "What's the plan anyway?"
Acceptance: "Well, I haven't given it much thought."
Acceptance: "What do you guys think about heading up to (THE PLACE)?"
MC: "..."
MC: "You haven't given it much thought and that's what pops into your head?"
Depression: "Didn't think we'd be getting the group's third basket case so soon."
Acceptance: "I know, I know. But have you heard of the art gallery that's supposed to be there?"
MC: "Art gallery?"
Acceptance: "Yeah. You know how abstract art can affect different people in different ways?"
Acceptance: "There's supposed to be a gallery there with art that looks different to everyone."
Acceptance: "But it's more than that. They say it reveals your innermost self. That looking at it can help you to find yourself."
Denial: "You really buy into that crap?"
Acceptance: "I'm not totally sure. I just want to help MC out of his rut, and if the rumors are true, this could help."
Acceptance: "And Depression, I suspect you might also benefit."
Depression: "I know myself fine. That's the problem."
Denial: "You're missing the point. Even if you didn't, going there wouldn't help. It's just an urban legend."
Denial: "Anger, can you talk some sense into these people?"
Anger: "I've tried. I've been calling them idiots for years, and they're still idiots."
Depression: "I can hear your voice shaking."
Anger: "Idiot."
Acceptance: "Don't be like that. You should come too."
Anger: "Why would I? If you idiots want to waste your Friday night, be my guest, but I have a life."
Depression: "Scared you'll lose it?"
Anger: "Will you shut up about it?"
Acceptance: "Come on, you know he's teasing you. Just come with us. You can help keep us safe."
Anger: "..."
Anger: "Fine, whatever."
Anger: "If this place does help you to find yourself, I want to be there when you all realize you're idiots."
Depression: "Way ahead of you."
Acceptance: "Well, this is shaping up to be quite the night. I'm more excited than nervous now."
MC: "What ab cout you, Bargaining? You've been quiet."
Bargaining: "..."
Bargaining: "I don't know guys. I really don't think it's such a good idea to go."
Bargaining: "That place is supposed to be really sketchy. Can't we do our soul-searching at home?"
Bargaining: "We could just go hang out at my place. I'll make us food."
Anger: "Shut up and just say no already. You're such a wuss."
Depression: "You've got nothing to be worried about. If a monster wants to eat one of us, they'll definitely start with Anger."
Depression: "That should give you some time to escape!"
Acceptance: "It's up to you. We'd love to have you, but I won't pressure you to do something you don't want to do."
Depression: "I will. Come with us!"
Bargaining: "..."
Bargaining: "If you really want me to, I guess I will."
Depression: "See Acceptance? Pressuring people works."
Acceptance: "Guess so."
Acceptance: "Well Denial, you're officially the odd man out."
Denial: "Yeah, *I'm* the odd one in this group."
Denial: (Sigh).
Denial: "Yeah, whatever, alright." 
Denial: "I know it'll be a wasted night, but at least I won't be the one who didn't do something that even Bargaining did."
Depression: "Don't worry, Bargaining. I'm the low bar in every other situation."
Acceptance: "Looks like our plans are made then! Let's just make it to the end of the day now, MC."
MC: "Yep. Back to plan A."
>text is finally over
>some sort of transition to going to class, all characters go inside, MC follows

>player eventually takes seat
>teacher comes in.
Teacher: "Alright, let's get started. We're going to pick up where we left off yesterday."
Teacher: "Logarithms are pretty simple if you understand exponents. They're really just a different way ..."
>screen fades to black
MC (thinking): "..."
MC (thinking): "...Huh?"
MC (thinking): "It's that same feeling again as this morning. Did I fall asleep?"
>screen fades in
Teacher: "...will go over Euler's constant as it relates to logarithms on Monday."
Teacher: "Until then, have a safe and fun weekend."
>teacher leaves. it's fine. this is a thing that happens in school, the teacher just leaves.
MC (thinking): "..That's not good. Did I really sleep through the entire lesson?"
MC (thinking): "Well, I'm definitely screwed in this class. But I guess that's one way to make it to the end of the day."
MC (thinking): "Still though, why am I so exhausted? I don't feel any less tired than before."
>all the students leave except Acceptance
>Acceptance approaches
Acceptance: "Seems like math didn't cheer you up. You look even worse than this morning."
MC: "Yeah, I ended up sleeping through the whole class."
Acceptance: "That's not like you. You still up for tonight?"
MC: "For sure. The last thing I want is to do nothing while I'm feeling like this." 
MC: "But I think I'm gonna head home for the day. I don't see any reason to stay here if I can't even stay awake for class."
Acceptance: "Agreed, I think that's the right call. \r You want to pick us up from school?"
MC: "No, I don't think that's a good idea. I don't think I'm in any shape to drive."
Acceptance: "Yeah, good point. We'll swing by your place tonight then."
MC: "Sounds good. See you then."
>Acceptance leaves
>player regains control
>eventually leaves
>door now leads back to MC's house after extended screen transition

>cut to MC back at house in bed, it's darker
MC (thinking): "..."
MC (thinking): "(Sigh)"
MC (thinking): "It's so easy to fall asleep when I'm not trying to."
MC (thinking): "But even now, as tired as I am, I can't fall asleep on command. \n Because my body "knows" I'm trying to."
MC (thinking): "Maybe I should've stayed at school after all."
>knocking sound
MC (thinking): "Oh? Is that Acceptance already? I figured they wouldn't be here for awhile."
>player eventually makes their way to the front door
>first person view, no one is there
MC (thinking): "That's weird. No one is out there. \n Am I hearing things?"
MC (thinking): "I'm sure I heard three knocks. There's something distinctly deliberate about that."
>player walks away, idk ~3 tiles any direction, screen suddenly goes black, powerdown sound.
MC (thinking): "The power is out? Geez, what a pain. I can't see a thing."
>if player tries to move
MC (thinking): "It's too dark to move around in here, I need a light source."
>after using lighter to move, player walks toward bedroom
>window tapping sound plays
MC (thinking): "?!"
MC (thinking): "That came from my room!"
>go to room, check window
MC (thinking): (slow) "...?"
MC (thinking): "No one is out there? I was sure I heard someone knocking on"
>hand slaps window interrupting textbox
MC (thinking): "Wh-Who was that?!"
MC (thinking): "I have to get out there!"

>player heads outside
>group of friends is out there minus Depression (and Anger and Denial? can't think of where they'd fit into this scene)
Acceptance: "Whoa! Slow down there."
MC: "Huh? It's you guys?"
MC: "So the person who just hit my window was..."
>depression comes around 
Depression: "I may have some information regarding that."
Bargaining: "Depression, I told you not to..."
Depression: "Ahh come on, he came out didn't he?"
Depression: "I was just messing around."
MC: "Oh yeah? Did you knock on my door and cut my power as a joke too? You scared the hell out of me."
Depression: "What? We just got here."
Acceptance: "Your power's out? Yeah that definitely wasn't us."
Acceptance: "We assumed you were sleeping when we pulled up and saw all your lights out."
Depression: "And I heroically volunteered to wake you up."
Bargaining: "Yeah... \"heroically\"..."
MC: "Well, that's.. That's really odd timing then."
Denial: "Don't correlate unrelated things. Random power surges are pretty common. I doubt this is the first for you."
Denial: "Even in the modern era, we're still incapable of reliably delivering power to homes."
Denial: "There's just too many moving pieces. A lot of things can go wrong, and any of them can cause a power outage."Acceptance: "Ever the rationalist."
Acceptance: "But yeah, he's probably right. I wouldn't dwell on it."
Anger: "Hey, speaking of not dwelling..."
Anger: "CAN WE LEAVE ALREADY?"
Acceptance: "Ahh shoot that's right, we're already wasting Anger's whole night. Let's try to be gracious."
Acceptance: "You ready to head out MC?"
Player: "Ready as I'll ever be. Let's go."
>characters walk off screen, camera doesn't follow (i sure hope i can figure this out l0l)
>slow fade out

>fade to friends arriving there
Acceptance: "Well, here we are."
>camera pans up to show building then back
Depression: "Man, talk about cliche."
Denial: "It's obvious, isn't it?"
Denial: "There wouldn't be any mystique surrounding this place if it didn't fit the profile of such a place."
Denial: "In other words, if it weren't cliche, we wouldn't be here. It's a self-fulfilling prophecy."
Depression: "...Yeah, right? Totally cliche."
Bargaining: "Cliche or not, I still think we shouldn't be here."
Anger: "Oh, hey guys, Bargaining says we shouldn't be here. Guess we're heading home."
Anger: "If only you had said something before."
Depression: "Listen to you, droning on and on. It's like you're trying to delay going inside."
Depression: "It's alright if you're scared. We won't think less of you!"
Anger: "Shut UP! I'm not scared! That's the only reason I came at all!"
Acceptance: "Alright already, geez. You guys sure are at eachother's throats today."
MC: "You did say this place brings out \"the real you\" or whatever, right?"
Acceptance: "Fair enough. But for all our sake, let's try to keep the quarreling to a minimum."
Acceptance: "So on the that note, and if you're all ready..."
Acceptance: "Let's head inside."
>big iron gate
>opens, creeeeeak lol
>everyone heads inside i guess
>player regains control
>heads inside gate and the door shuts behind him aaaaaaaa
>can wander around grounds maybe? i expect there'll be some puzzle out here eventually
>belltower? locked right now
>eventually head inside
	>path 1, everyone's spread out doing their own thing, free to move and talk
	>cutscene with denial involving falling into hole to basement when you talk to him

	>path 2, everyone's congregated and entering triggers new dialogue cutscene
	>how do we take this to moving the story along
		>option 1, there's a puzzle to be done in a different room
		>complete it, cutscene where denial comes in "oh there you are, come on, X going on out there"
		>wood tile that creaked when you were in here alone now breaks underneath your combined weight if I can get the two on the same tile
	>path 3, kind of a combination
	-everyone is doing their own thing and player is free to move and talk when they enter
	-there's a room with a puzzle in it
	-doing the puzzle triggers denial coming in to find you
	-then you fall in the basement